---
title: "Why we need to understand Math before Machine learning ?"
date: 2021-08-30T14:57:52+07:00
description: AHIHI
toc: true # Table of content
mermaid: true
math: true
categories: ["Math for Machine learning"]
---

*In this article, I want share with you how Machine learning and Mathemtical related together. Besides, Why we need learning Math before doing or learning Machine learning ? But first of all, we need to know how math important impact on  our life.*

[we dont' love it]: <> (The learning math reality)

We were tought about Math when we were a child. And it follow we up to we envolve to high school and after that college. I learnt many mathematical topics that help me passed the examimations during high school and also college. Arithmetic, Algebra, Calculus, Geometry, Probabilities and Statistics are subjects that tought from high school to college. It's so boring although I could solve it easily.

One thing that I'm not answer it until learning Machine learning is: 
> WHY we need to learn Math meanwhile I can not use it in my life ?

Real mathematical problems are presented in textbooks but We don't know how to apply the same knowledege to others. For example, we can use the *differentation* concept to find the optimal point of the function that formulated from financial, physical, etc. On the same way, we can use *statistic* to calculate the mean, variation, expectation of a sample provided from a poll. However, it didn't create the love with doing math because it is just excercise and our mission is solving it by tought knowledge. 

## 1. Importance of Math

The *[Why is Math Important in Life?](https://www.piday.org/10-reasons-why-math-is-important-in-life/)* article indicate 10 reason why we need to learn Math. Learning or doing math make our brain better, help us make a good decision in many situation, etc. But I think the best reason why we must understand math is improving our problem-solving, critical thinking skills.

From point of view of Computer Science, Math play a vital role. The roots of Computer Sience is Math education, that is the message come from [edutopia](https://www.edutopia.org/blog/math-education-roots-computer-science-lincoln-sedlacek). The article presented 4 motivates why it is very neccessary to learning Math for Computer Science. These are understanding and communication though abstract language, teach we how to work with algrotihms, teach we how to analyze our work, general skills.

Machine learning is the field that have rapid development in recent year. 


